 A relational Model is the standard data model which we see in sql .
 It is the type of model which represents data in form of relations(Table)
 * a relational DB is a collection of tables which are assigned a unique name. 

 * Tuple - A row of a table is called a tuple and it represnts data about a single relationship in that table.  
 * column - it represents the attribute of a relation. Each attribute can have value only from its domain set

 // RELATION SCHEMA - defines the design and structure of a relation.  contains name and all related attributes(columns)

  DBMS which use relational model are called RDBMS. (eg Oracle MySQL Ms access IBM etc)
  * Degree of Table - No of Columns(attrbutes) in that table. 
  * Cardinality - No of tuples in that relation (no of rows)
  * Relational key - set of attruibute which can uniquely identify each tuple 

  * Properties of Table in RM : 
    1. Each relation must be unique and have a distinct name.
    2. Name of each column must be unique 
    3. Values must be atomic(cant be broken down)
    4. Order or columns or rows does not matter 
    5. Each tuple must be unique 
    6. Must follow integrity constraints

** Types of Relational Model keys 
1. Super key - combination of all values of attributes which can be used to uniquely identify a tuple. 
2. Candidate key - minimum subset of super key which can be used for identification. contains no redundant attribute 
3. Primary Key - choosen from CK . contains least number of attributes  
4. alternate key - all ck except PK. 
5. Composite key - pk formed using at least 2 attribute.
6. Surrogate Key - synthetic Pk. ie it is generated by DB to use as pk. 
7. Foreign Key - It creates relation between two tables. ( we can use PK of table 2 as an attribute of Table 1  , then that attribute will be called foreign key of r1 referencing r2 .   r2 - referenced parent  r1- referencing child)

** INTEGRITY CONSTRAINTS : (crud operations must be done with integrity policy so as to not corrupt the DB)
 1. Domain constriants : we must specify the domain of values for attributes in relation. Along with the data types that would be filled in those attr. 
 2. Entity constraints  : every table should have a Pk . 
 3. Referential constraints: if a reference between two relations is used then the foreign key(referenced quantity) in one table must have a similar value in another table or it should be null. (the case where foreign key is present but the value of foreign key doesnt align with any value in the parent is not acceptable. it produces inconsistency. )
 4. Key constraints :  the six types of key constraints present are 
    a. NOT NULL - the attribute with this const can not be null. and must have a value. 
    b. unique - the attribute with this const must all have a unique value for each tuple 
    c. default - this makes sure to fill a col. with a default value if it is not filled 
    d. check - it is one of the integrity const that checks if the integrity of data is maintained before and after the crud operation. 
    e. primary key - the attribute or set of attr. that can be used to uniquely identify a tuple. 
    f. foreign key - if two realtion are connected then there must be a foreign key between them which should be a pk of one table and the fk of another. so that it prevent any action which results in loss of connection between tables   